2018/46/index.md, before:

## 2018 Week 45

### [Mentions in dispatches](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rlh6UKsp_o8)

In an otherwise quiet week in Westminster, our beloved first born, the [Statutory Instrument tracker](https://beta.parliament.uk/find-a-statutory-instrument) stumbled into [telly fame](https://parliamentlive.tv/event/index/fb6dddc6-6e51-49bf-b8ad-133affcd3d27?in=13:37:52&out=13:38:11) this week when [Valerie Vaz](https://beta.parliament.uk/people/aoYPX4nz) gave it an approving shout out in the Chamber. Chinking glass Slack emojis popped up because we can't afford actual booze. Still, we were pleased. The latest set of releases have improved things dramatically and you can now [find SIs by laying body](https://beta.parliament.uk/groups/KSMOf7aM/made-available/availability-types/laid-papers) or by [procedural steps](https://beta.parliament.uk/procedure-steps). And [SIs now link to preceding PNSIs](https://beta.parliament.uk/work-packages/sWnYaNsO) and [vice versa](https://beta.parliament.uk/proposed-negative-statutory-instruments/lTbB3os8). [Our upstart child is cool and smart](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rlh6UKsp_o8&t=1m33s).

### Community

[Anya](https://twitter.com/bitten_), [Silver](https://twitter.com/silveroliver), Robert and [Michael](https://twitter.com/fantasticlife) were joined on Tuesday by [Jenn](https://twitter.com/MrsAudiac) and [Jonathan](https://twitter.com/jonathantweed) from the world of [Wellcome](https://wellcome.ac.uk/). Architectures were sketched, domain models chewed over and all things search, browse and discoverability discussed. "The content is the domain model, the website is the domain model, the user journeys are the domain model," said Jenn. Or words to that effect. And those assembled couldn't have agreed more. Then they took off to the [Strangers' Bar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strangers%27_Bar) for a beverage. Or beverages. And things got a little messy. We'll leave this here.

### One world, one web, one team

A couple of weeks back Anya, Robert and Michael got together with [Jack](https://twitter.com/jackpdent) to make a first attempt at drawing through the parliamentary procedure for treaties. Michael [tweeted a picture](https://twitter.com/fantasticlife/status/1057969440480993280) which got [picked up by Matt](https://twitter.com/MattKorris/status/1058375985366818817), who pointed us in the direction of [Arabella](https://twitter.com/Arabella_Law), our resident expert on all things treatyish and parliamentary, who [volunteered her assistance](https://twitter.com/Arabella_Law/status/1058818195644186630). Which goes to show, Twitter does still work for some things. Sometimes.

All this led to Anya, Robert and Michael spending part of Monday morning with Arabella, making a second attempt with their [usual boxes and arrows](https://twitter.com/fantasticlife/status/1061972462928388096). More things clicked into place although nothing got much simpler. Some bits of Arabella's brain are now [drawn up and published](https://github.com/ukparliament/ontologies/blob/master/procedure/flowchart-with-logic/treaties.pdf). Thanks Arabella.

In [last week's thrilling instalment](https://ukparliament.github.io/Weeknotes/2018/45/#one-world-one-web-one-team), we mentioned that Anya had managed to persuade the people who publish the [Future Business Paper](https://ukparliament.github.io/Weeknotes/2018/45/#one-world-one-web-one-team) to start adding ID attributes to the HTML. Which means librarian Jayne can now link [SI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statutory_instrument_(UK)) tracking business items to the pertinent place. And not to the top of a massive document. [Our Jake](https://twitter.com/carboia) wrote a javascript bookmarklet to expose the IDs as anchor links against headings and as a table of contents. Which we're told has made life easier for Jayne. This week Anya and Michael went over to the Print and Publications people to show them Jake's bookmarklet and ask if they might include similar in their pages so everyone gets the benefit. And it turned out they planned to do just that. They also chatted about whether it would be possible to do the same thing in [Votes and Proceedings](https://www.parliament.uk/business/publications/business-papers/commons/votes-and-proceedings/#session=29&year=2018&month=10&day=15) and were told yes, that will be fine. This is marvellous, because, whilst magazines may be made of pages, *the web is definitely made of links*.

Everybody being happy with general progress on improving the web, conversation turned to [Standing Orders](https://publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm201516/cmstords/1154/toc.htm). Anya and Michael would like to give every Standing Order and every sub-paragraph and every sub-sub-paragraph a persistent URI so they can be reliably cited. Not least from things like the procedure data. Michael's been attempting to parse the published HTML but it's not heavy on semantics so that's proving tricky. A joint project was suggested to look at transferring the production of Standing Orders to an XML authoring environment. They're now planning to spend a couple of hours digging into what's there and attempting to model it out. Both as an XML schema and probably something more domain model like. The meeting concluded with smiles and agreement and felt so successful Anya and Michael decided a beer was in order.

Anya, Robert and Michael ended the week on a high when they were joined in library land by House of Lords Jane, House of Commons Jack and Christine from the [Parliamentary Computational Section](https://pds.blog.parliament.uk/). The mission was to write summary text for work packages, looking at the conditions around key steps and attempting to come up with a set of statements to describe the pertinent bits of current state. They wrote up [a set of statements and accompanying logic](https://github.com/ukparliament/ontologies/blob/master/procedure/summary/summary.txt) for the [Proposed Negative Statutory Instrument procedure](https://ukparliament.github.io/ontologies/procedure/proposed-negative-sis/proposed-negative-sis.pdf). They probably still need some work but Christine is hoping to prototype something if she ever gets time off from real work. The same but for other procedures to follow.

### Domain modelling

Procedure concluded steps have now been added to [all five procedures](https://ukparliament.github.io/ontologies/procedure/procedure-ontology.html#examples) and librarian Jayne has gone back over all the [work packages](https://ukparliament.github.io/ontologies/procedure/procedure-ontology.html#d4e422) in the system to [actualise](https://ukparliament.github.io/ontologies/procedure/procedure-ontology.html#d4e88) them where appropriate. Which means we can now differentiate between 'current' work packages and those that have completed their journey through Parliament. New [routes](https://github.com/ukparliament/ontologies/blob/master/urls.csv) have been added to split apart all work packages and 'current' work packages and all work packages for a given paper type and 'current' work packages for a given paper type and Bex has been busy writing queries and making web pages to match.

Anya and Michael spent Tuesday morning reexamining all the [routes](https://ukparliament.github.io/ontologies/procedure/procedure-ontology.html#d4e382) into concluding steps. They'd been over ambitious in trying to express logic without having any real means to do that. Routes which were causes are now slightly flabbier allows. Until we add [logic gates](https://ukparliament.github.io/ontologies/procedure/procedure-ontology.html#d4e342) to the model anyway.

Anya, Robert and Michael continued to plough back through the models, tweaking names and comments as they went. There's not much to see but they hope their future selves will thank them one day. As they've been ticking off models, they've been adding them to the [interface model](https://ukparliament.github.io/ontologies/interface/interface.html). Which, at Robert's suggestion, now includes [owl:imports](https://www.w3.org/TR/owl2-syntax/#Imports) statements to stitch their [teeny tiny, fag-packety models](http://smethur.st/posts/176135865) into one [huge ever growing pulsating brain that rules from the centre of the ultraworld](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qexS5hBB1C0). Unfortunately, the software they use to transform their machine-friendly turtle files into people friendly HTML doesn't seem to do anything with owl:imports. So that's another thing they've added to their requirements list for the new parser that Robert's writing. More thrillingly, the tool they use to visualise the models seems to do what it's supposed to do with owl:imports, so the world can now marvel at [some blobs and lines being force directed around a screen](http://www.visualdataweb.de/webvowl/#opts=sidebar=0;doc=0;mode_compact=true;mode_colorExt=false;#iri=https://ukparliament.github.io/ontologies/interface/interface.ttl). 

### Strolls

A stroll to the Soho milkshake shop was pencilled in but Anya, Robert and Michael were a little under the weather so no stroll happened. Better things next week you hope.

### Things that caught our eye

* The marvellous [George Oates](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Oates) on [Making and Remaking Collections Online](https://olh.openlibhums.org/articles/10.16995/olh.325/) via Wellcome Jenn. "See the whole from its parts. Look outwards from a single object along all its connective tissue. Show activity around objects. Get to know the grain of a dataset before you represent it; be aware of design's editorial power here. Relinquishing control can be liberating. Leverage hyperlinks to make networked objects. Clear constraints breed creative responses."

^ Yes. Yes, yes, yes. Yes! Use hypertext to make hyperthings people. ^

Commit message:

added leigh report / first anya edits

2018/46/index.md, after:

## 2018 Week 45

### Mentions in dispatches

In an otherwise quiet week in Westminster, our beloved first born, the [Statutory Instrument tracker](https://beta.parliament.uk/find-a-statutory-instrument) stumbled into [telly fame](https://parliamentlive.tv/event/index/fb6dddc6-6e51-49bf-b8ad-133affcd3d27?in=13:37:52&out=13:38:11) this week when [Valerie Vaz](https://beta.parliament.uk/people/aoYPX4nz) gave it an approving shout out in the Chamber. Clinking glass Slack emojis were shared, because we can't afford actual booze. Still, we were pleased. The latest set of releases have improved things dramatically; you can find SIs by [find SIs by laying body](https://beta.parliament.uk/groups/KSMOf7aM/made-available/availability-types/laid-papers) or by [procedure steps](https://beta.parliament.uk/procedure-steps). [SIs link to preceding PNSIs](https://beta.parliament.uk/work-packages/sWnYaNsO), and [vice versa](https://beta.parliament.uk/proposed-negative-statutory-instruments/lTbB3os8). And, whereas before you could only see lists of instruments laid since the service launched, you can now choose to list [SIs](https://beta.parliament.uk/work-packages/paper-types/statutory-instruments/current) and [PNSIs](https://beta.parliament.uk/work-packages/paper-types/proposed-negative-statutory-instruments/current) currently before Parliament, filtering out those that have reached the end of their journey through Parliament. [Our upstart child is cool and smart](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rlh6UKsp_o8&t=1m33s).

### Community

[Anya](https://twitter.com/bitten_), [Silver](https://twitter.com/silveroliver), Robert and [Michael](https://twitter.com/fantasticlife) were joined on Tuesday by [Jenn](https://twitter.com/MrsAudiac) and [Jonathan](https://twitter.com/jonathantweed) from the world of [Wellcome](https://wellcome.ac.uk/). Architectures were sketched, domain models chewed over and all things search, browse and discoverability discussed. "The content is the domain model, the website is the domain model, the user journeys are the domain model," said Jenn. Or words to that effect. And those assembled couldn't have agreed more. Then they took off to the [Strangers' Bar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strangers%27_Bar) for a beverage. Or beverages. And things got a little messy. We'll leave this here.

Following our chats last week, [ODI](https://theodi.org/) [Leigh](https://twitter.com/ldodds) got back with a report on how to model statistics in the data platform. He's recommended we use [RDF Data Cube](https://www.w3.org/TR/vocab-data-cube/) so our slightly wonky attempt at a [stats series model](https://ukparliament.github.io/ontologies/stats-series/stats-series-ontology.html) can now be considered binned. Thanks Leigh.

### One world, one web, one team

A couple of weeks back Anya, Robert and Michael got together with [Jack](https://twitter.com/jackpdent) to make a first attempt at drawing through the parliamentary procedure for treaties. Michael [tweeted a picture](https://twitter.com/fantasticlife/status/1057969440480993280) which got [picked up by Matt](https://twitter.com/MattKorris/status/1058375985366818817), who pointed us in the direction of [Arabella](https://twitter.com/Arabella_Law), our resident expert on all things treatyish and parliamentary, who [volunteered her assistance](https://twitter.com/Arabella_Law/status/1058818195644186630). Which goes to show, Twitter does still work for some things. Sometimes.

All this led to Anya, Robert and Michael spending part of Monday morning with Arabella, making a second attempt with their [usual boxes and arrows](https://twitter.com/fantasticlife/status/1061972462928388096). More things clicked into place although nothing got much simpler. Some bits of Arabella's brain are now [drawn up and published](https://github.com/ukparliament/ontologies/blob/master/procedure/flowchart-with-logic/treaties.pdf). Thanks Arabella.

In [last week's thrilling instalment](https://ukparliament.github.io/Weeknotes/2018/45/#one-world-one-web-one-team), we mentioned that Anya had managed to persuade the people who publish the [Future Business Paper](https://ukparliament.github.io/Weeknotes/2018/45/#one-world-one-web-one-team) to start adding ID attributes to the HTML. Which means librarian Jayne can now link [SI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statutory_instrument_(UK)) tracking business items to the pertinent place. And not to the top of a massive document. [Our Jake](https://twitter.com/carboia) wrote a javascript bookmarklet to expose the IDs as anchor links against headings and as a table of contents. Which we're told has made life easier for Jayne. This week Anya and Michael went over to the Print and Publications people to show them Jake's bookmarklet and ask if they might include similar in their pages so everyone gets the benefit. And it turned out they planned to do just that. They also chatted about whether it would be possible to do the same thing in [Votes and Proceedings](https://www.parliament.uk/business/publications/business-papers/commons/votes-and-proceedings/#session=29&year=2018&month=10&day=15) and were told yes, that will be fine. This is marvellous, because, whilst magazines may be made of pages, *the web is definitely made of links*.

Everybody being happy with general progress on improving the web, conversation turned to [Standing Orders](https://publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm201516/cmstords/1154/toc.htm). Anya and Michael would like to give every Standing Order and every sub-paragraph and every sub-sub-paragraph a persistent URI so they can be reliably cited. Not least from things like the procedure data. Michael's been attempting to parse the published HTML but it's not heavy on semantics so that's proving tricky. A joint project was suggested to look at transferring the production of Standing Orders to an XML authoring environment. They're now planning to spend a couple of hours digging into what's there and attempting to model it out. Both as an XML schema and probably something more domain model like. The meeting concluded with smiles and agreement and felt so successful Anya and Michael decided a beer was in order.

Anya, Robert and Michael ended the week on a high when they were joined in library land by House of Lords Jane, House of Commons Jack and Christine from the [Parliamentary Computational Section](https://pds.blog.parliament.uk/). The mission was to write summary text for work packages, looking at the conditions around key steps and attempting to come up with a set of statements to describe the pertinent bits of current state. They wrote up [a set of statements and accompanying logic](https://github.com/ukparliament/ontologies/blob/master/procedure/summary/summary.txt) for the [Proposed Negative Statutory Instrument procedure](https://ukparliament.github.io/ontologies/procedure/proposed-negative-sis/proposed-negative-sis.pdf). They probably still need some work but Christine is hoping to prototype something if she ever gets time off from real work. The same but for other procedures to follow.

### Domain modelling

Procedure concluded steps have now been added to [all five procedures](https://ukparliament.github.io/ontologies/procedure/procedure-ontology.html#examples) and librarian Jayne has gone back over all the [work packages](https://ukparliament.github.io/ontologies/procedure/procedure-ontology.html#d4e422) in the system to [actualise](https://ukparliament.github.io/ontologies/procedure/procedure-ontology.html#d4e88) them where appropriate. Which means we can now differentiate between 'current' work packages and those that have completed their journey through Parliament. New [routes](https://github.com/ukparliament/ontologies/blob/master/urls.csv) have been added to split apart all work packages and 'current' work packages and all work packages for a given paper type and 'current' work packages for a given paper type and Bex has been busy writing queries and making web pages to match.

Anya and Michael spent Tuesday morning reexamining all the [routes](https://ukparliament.github.io/ontologies/procedure/procedure-ontology.html#d4e382) into concluding steps. They'd been over ambitious in trying to express logic without having any real means to do that. Routes which were causes are now slightly flabbier allows. Until we add [logic gates](https://ukparliament.github.io/ontologies/procedure/procedure-ontology.html#d4e342) to the model anyway.

Anya, Robert and Michael continued to plough back through the models, tweaking names and comments as they went. There's not much to see but they hope their future selves will thank them one day. As they've been ticking off models, they've been adding them to the [interface model](https://ukparliament.github.io/ontologies/interface/interface.html). Which, at Robert's suggestion, now includes [owl:imports](https://www.w3.org/TR/owl2-syntax/#Imports) statements to stitch their [teeny tiny, fag-packety models](http://smethur.st/posts/176135865) into one [huge ever growing pulsating brain that rules from the centre of the ultraworld](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qexS5hBB1C0). Unfortunately, the software they use to transform their machine-friendly turtle files into people friendly HTML doesn't seem to do anything with owl:imports. So that's another thing they've added to their requirements list for the new parser that Robert's writing. More thrillingly, the tool they use to visualise the models seems to do what it's supposed to do with owl:imports, so the world can now marvel at [some blobs and lines being force directed around a screen](http://www.visualdataweb.de/webvowl/#opts=sidebar=0;doc=0;mode_compact=true;mode_colorExt=false;#iri=https://ukparliament.github.io/ontologies/interface/interface.ttl). 

### Strolls

A stroll to the Soho milkshake shop was pencilled in but Anya, Robert and Michael were a little under the weather so no stroll happened. Better things next week you hope.

### Things that caught our eye

* The marvellous [George Oates](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Oates) on [Making and Remaking Collections Online](https://olh.openlibhums.org/articles/10.16995/olh.325/) via Wellcome Jenn. "See the whole from its parts. Look outwards from a single object along all its connective tissue. Show activity around objects. Get to know the grain of a dataset before you represent it; be aware of design's editorial power here. Relinquishing control can be liberating. Leverage hyperlinks to make networked objects. Clear constraints breed creative responses."

^ Yes. Yes, yes, yes. Yes! Use hypertext to make hyperthings people. ^
